Emacs/W3 Installation Guide
Copyright (c) 1997 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

   Permission is granted to anyone to make or distribute verbatim copies
   of this document as received, in any medium, provided that the
   copyright notice and permission notice are preserved,
   and that the distributor grants the recipient permission
   for further redistribution as permitted by this notice.

   Permission is granted to distribute modified versions
   of this document, or of portions of it,
   under the above conditions, provided also that they
   carry prominent notices stating who last changed them,
   and that any new or changed statements about the activities
   of the Free Software Foundation are approved by the Foundation.


ADDITIONAL DISTRIBUTION FILES

* custom.tar.gz

For older versions of Emacs (pre-20.x), you will need the latest and
greatest versions of the custom and widget libraries.  This is
distributed in a separate tar file to save users time in downloading,
and to ease maintenance of the libraries.


BUILDING AND INSTALLATION

(This is for a Unix or Unix-like system.  For Windows NT or Windows
95, see the file README.NT.  For VMS systems, see the file README.VMS)

1) Make sure your system has enough memory to run Emacs, plus about 1
megabyte to spare.

Building Emacs/W3 requires about 2.8 Mb of disk space (including the
sources).  Once installed, Emacs/W3 occupies about 2 Mb in the file
system where it is installed.

2) To build Emacs/W3, you must configure a few simple items.  Emacs/W3 
uses the GNU 'autoconf' program for meta-configuration.  You should be 
able to run the program `configure' as follows:

   ./configure [--OPTION[=VALUE]] ...

If you wish to build with a specific version of Emacs, specify
`--with-emacs=VARIANT'.  If you wish to build with a specific version
of XEmacs, specify `--with-xemacs=VARIANT'.  If you omit these
options, `configure' will try to figure out what flavor of Emacs to
use.  It will honor the `EMACS' environment variable if it is set,
otherwise it will check for `xemacs' and `emacs' in your path.

If you had to install the custom and widget libraries in a
non-standard place, specify `--with-custom=DIR'.  If you omit this
option, `configure' will try to figure out where an acceptable version 
of custom and widget are installed.

If you had to install Gnus in a non-standard place, specify
`--with-gnus=DIR'.  If you omit this option, `configure' will try to
figure out where an acceptable version of Gnus is installed.  The
Content-ID (CID) URL handling relies on a recent version of Gnus, but
the rest of Emacs/W3 can function with any version of Gnus later than
5.0.

If you prefer not to use the GNU `makeinfo' program if it is
available, specify `--with-makeinfo=no'.  This will cause the info
files to be built using Emacs.

The `--prefix=PREFIXDIR' option specifies where the installation process
should put Emacs/W3 and its data files.  This defaults to `/usr/local'.
- Lisp files go in PREFIXDIR/share/emacs/site-lisp
  (unless the `--with-lispdir' option says otherwise).
- The architecture-independent files go in PREFIXDIR/share/emacs/w3
  (unless the `--datadir' option says otherwise).

`configure' doesn't do any compilation or installation itself.  It
just creates the files that influence those things:
`./Makefile', `texi/Makefile', and `lisp/Makefile'.

When it is done, `configure' prints a description of what it did and
creates a shell script `config.status' which, when run, recreates the
same configuration.  If `configure' exits with an error after
disturbing the status quo, it removes `config.status'.  `configure'
also creates a file `config.cache' that saves the results of its tests
to make reconfiguring faster, and a file `config.log' containing
compiler output (useful mainly for debugging `configure').  You can
give `configure' the option `--cache-file=FILE' to use the results of
the tests in FILE instead of `config.cache'.  Set FILE to `/dev/null'
to disable caching, for debugging `configure'.

3) Run `make' in the top directory of the Emacs/W3 distribution to
finish building Emacs/W3 in the standard way.  You can "install" the
package with `make install'.  By default, Emacs/W3's files are
installed in the following directories:

`/usr/local/share/emacs/site-lisp' holds the Emacs/W3 lisp code.

`/usr/local/share/emacs/w3' holds any data files for Emacs/W3,
		including `stylesheet' which controls all default
		formatting settings.

`/usr/local/info' holds the on-line documentation for Emacs/W3, known
		as "info files."

4) Check the file `dir' in your site's info directory (usually
/usr/local/info) to make sure that it has a menu entry for the
Emacs/W3 info files.

5) You are done!  You can remove object files from the build directory 
by typing `make clean'.  To also remove the files that `configure'
created (so you can compile Emacs/W3 for a different configuration),
type `make distclean'.
