This is Info file elisp, produced by Makeinfo-1.55 from the input file
elisp.texi.

   This version is the edition 2.3 of the GNU Emacs Lisp Reference
Manual.  It corresponds to Emacs Version 19.23.

   Published by the Free Software Foundation 675 Massachusetts Avenue
Cambridge, MA 02139 USA

   Copyright (C) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Free Software Foundation,
Inc.

   Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

   Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

   Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be stated in a
translation approved by the Foundation.

   Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also
that the section entitled "GNU General Public License" is included
exactly as in the original, and provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice
identical to this one.

   Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that the section entitled "GNU General Public License"
may be included in a translation approved by the Free Software
Foundation instead of in the original English.


File: elisp,  Node: Character Type,  Next: Symbol Type,  Prev: Floating Point Type,  Up: Programming Types

Character Type
--------------

   A "character" in Emacs Lisp is nothing more than an integer.  In
other words, characters are represented by their character codes.  For
example, the character `A' is represented as the integer 65.

   Individual characters are not often used in programs.  It is far more
common to work with *strings*, which are sequences composed of
characters.  *Note String Type::.

   Characters in strings, buffers, and files are currently limited to
the range of 0 to 255--eight bits.  If you store a larger integer into a
string, buffer or file, it is truncated to that range.  Characters that
represent keyboard input have a much wider range.

   Since characters are really integers, the printed representation of a
character is a decimal number.  This is also a possible read syntax for
a character, but writing characters that way in Lisp programs is a very
bad idea.  You should *always* use the special read syntax formats that
Emacs Lisp provides for characters.  These syntax formats start with a
question mark.

   The usual read syntax for alphanumeric characters is a question mark
followed by the character; thus, `?A' for the character `A', `?B' for
the character `B', and `?a' for the character `a'.

   For example:

     ?Q => 81     ?q => 113

   You can use the same syntax for punctuation characters, but it is
often a good idea to add a `\' so that the Emacs commands for editing
Lisp code don't get confused.  For example, `?\ ' is the way to write
the space character.  If the character is `\', you *must* use a second
`\' to quote it: `?\\'.

   You can express the characters Control-g, backspace, tab, newline,
vertical tab, formfeed, return, and escape as `?\a', `?\b', `?\t',
`?\n', `?\v', `?\f', `?\r', `?\e', respectively.  Those values are 7,
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 27 in decimal.  Thus,

     ?\a => 7                 ; `C-g'
     ?\b => 8                 ; backspace, BS, `C-h'
     ?\t => 9                 ; tab, TAB, `C-i'
     ?\n => 10                ; newline, LFD, `C-j'
     ?\v => 11                ; vertical tab, `C-k'
     ?\f => 12                ; formfeed character, `C-l'
     ?\r => 13                ; carriage return, RET, `C-m'
     ?\e => 27                ; escape character, ESC, `C-['
     ?\\ => 92                ; backslash character, `\'

   These sequences which start with backslash are also known as "escape
sequences", because backslash plays the role of an escape character;
this usage has nothing to do with the character ESC.

   Control characters may be represented using yet another read syntax.
This consists of a question mark followed by a backslash, caret, and the
corresponding non-control character, in either upper or lower case.  For
example, both `?\^I' and `?\^i' are valid read syntax for the character
`C-i', the character whose value is 9.

   Instead of the `^', you can use `C-'; thus, `?\C-i' is equivalent to
`?\^I' and to `?\^i':

     ?\^I => 9     ?\C-I => 9

   For use in strings and buffers, you are limited to the control
characters that exist in ASCII, but for keyboard input purposes, you
can turn any character into a control character with `C-'.  The
character codes for these non-ASCII control characters include the
2**22 bit as well as the code for the corresponding non-control
character.  Ordinary terminals have no way of generating non-ASCII
control characters, but you can generate them straightforwardly using an
X terminal.

   You can think of the DEL character as `Control-?':

     ?\^? => 127     ?\C-? => 127

   For representing control characters to be found in files or strings,
we recommend the `^' syntax; for control characters in keyboard input,
we prefer the `C-' syntax.  This does not affect the meaning of the
program, but may guide the understanding of people who read it.

   A "meta character" is a character typed with the META modifier key.
The integer that represents such a character has the 2**23 bit set
(which on most machines makes it a negative number).  We use high bits
for this and other modifiers to make possible a wide range of basic
character codes.

   In a string, the 2**7 bit indicates a meta character, so the meta
characters that can fit in a string have codes in the range from 128 to
255, and are the meta versions of the ordinary ASCII characters.  (In
Emacs versions 18 and older, this convention was used for characters
outside of strings as well.)

   The read syntax for meta characters uses `\M-'.  For example,
`?\M-A' stands for `M-A'.  You can use `\M-' together with octal
character codes (see below), with `\C-', or with any other syntax for a
character.  Thus, you can write `M-A' as `?\M-A', or as `?\M-\101'.
Likewise, you can write `C-M-b' as `?\M-\C-b', `?\C-\M-b', or
`?\M-\002'.

   The case of an ordinary letter is indicated by its character code as
part of ASCII, but ASCII has no way to represent whether a control
character is upper case or lower case.  Emacs uses the 2**21 bit to
indicate that the shift key was used for typing a control character.
This distinction is possible only when you use X terminals or other
special terminals; ordinary terminals do not indicate the distinction to
the computer in any way.

   The X Window System defines three other modifier bits that can be set
in a character: "hyper", "super" and "alt".  The syntaxes for these
bits are `\H-', `\s-' and `\A-'.  Thus, `?\H-\M-\A-x' represents
`Alt-Hyper-Meta-x'.  Numerically, the bit values are 2**18 for alt,
2**19 for super and 2**20 for hyper.

   Finally, the most general read syntax consists of a question mark
followed by a backslash and the character code in octal (up to three
octal digits); thus, `?\101' for the character `A', `?\001' for the
character `C-a', and `?\002' for the character `C-b'.  Although this
syntax can represent any ASCII character, it is preferred only when the
precise octal value is more important than the ASCII representation.

     ?\012 => 10         ?\n => 10         ?\C-j => 10
     ?\101 => 65         ?A => 65

   A backslash is allowed, and harmless, preceding any character without
a special escape meaning; thus, `?\+' is equivalent to `?+'.  There is
no reason to add a backslash before most characters.  However, you
should add a backslash before any of the characters `()\|;'`"#.,' to
avoid confusing the Emacs commands for editing Lisp code.  Also add a
backslash before whitespace characters such as space, tab, newline and
formfeed.  However, it is cleaner to use one of the easily readable
escape sequences, such as `\t', instead of an actual whitespace
character such as a tab.


File: elisp,  Node: Symbol Type,  Next: Sequence Type,  Prev: Character Type,  Up: Programming Types

Symbol Type
-----------

   A "symbol" in GNU Emacs Lisp is an object with a name.  The symbol
name serves as the printed representation of the symbol.  In ordinary
use, the name is unique--no two symbols have the same name.

   A symbol can serve as a variable, as a function name, or to hold a
property list.  Or it may serve only to be distinct from all other Lisp
objects, so that its presence in a data structure may be recognized
reliably.  In a given context, usually only one of these uses is
intended.  But you can use one symbol in all of these ways,
independently.

   A symbol name can contain any characters whatever.  Most symbol names
are written with letters, digits, and the punctuation characters
`-+=*/'.  Such names require no special punctuation; the characters of
the name suffice as long as the name does not look like a number.  (If
it does, write a `\' at the beginning of the name to force
interpretation as a symbol.)  The characters `_~!@$%^&:<>{}' are less
often used but also require no special punctuation.  Any other
characters may be included in a symbol's name by escaping them with a
backslash.  In contrast to its use in strings, however, a backslash in
the name of a symbol simply quotes the single character that follows the
backslash.  For example, in a string, `\t' represents a tab character;
in the name of a symbol, however, `\t' merely quotes the letter `t'.
To have a symbol with a tab character in its name, you must actually
use a tab (preceded with a backslash).  But it's rare to do such a
thing.

     Common Lisp note: in Common Lisp, lower case letters are always
     "folded" to upper case, unless they are explicitly escaped.  This
     is in contrast to Emacs Lisp, in which upper case and lower case
     letters are distinct.

   Here are several examples of symbol names.  Note that the `+' in the
fifth example is escaped to prevent it from being read as a number.
This is not necessary in the last example because the rest of the name
makes it invalid as a number.

     foo                 ; A symbol named `foo'.
     FOO                 ; A symbol named `FOO', different from `foo'.
     char-to-string      ; A symbol named `char-to-string'.
     1+                  ; A symbol named `1+'
                         ;   (not `+1', which is an integer).
     \+1                 ; A symbol named `+1'
                         ;   (not a very readable name).
     \(*\ 1\ 2\)         ; A symbol named `(* 1 2)' (a worse name).
     +-*/_~!@$%^&=:<>{}  ; A symbol named `+-*/_~!@$%^&=:<>{}'.
                         ;   These characters need not be escaped.


File: elisp,  Node: Sequence Type,  Next: Cons Cell Type,  Prev: Symbol Type,  Up: Programming Types

Sequence Types
--------------

   A "sequence" is a Lisp object that represents an ordered set of
elements.  There are two kinds of sequence in Emacs Lisp, lists and
arrays.  Thus, an object of type list or of type array is also
considered a sequence.

   Arrays are further subdivided into strings and vectors.  Vectors can
hold elements of any type, but string elements must be characters in the
range from 0 to 255.  However, the characters in a string can have text
properties like characters in a buffer (*note Text Properties::.);
vectors do not support text properties even when their elements happen
to be characters.

   Lists, strings and vectors are different, but they have important
similarities.  For example, all have a length L, and all have elements
which can be indexed from zero to L minus one.  Also, several
functions, called sequence functions, accept any kind of sequence.  For
example, the function `elt' can be used to extract an element of a
sequence, given its index.  *Note Sequences Arrays Vectors::.

   It is impossible to read the same sequence twice, since sequences are
always created anew upon reading.  If you read the read syntax for a
sequence twice, you get two sequences with equal contents.  There is one
exception: the empty list `()' always stands for the same object, `nil'.


File: elisp,  Node: Cons Cell Type,  Next: Array Type,  Prev: Sequence Type,  Up: Programming Types

Cons Cell and List Types
------------------------

   A "cons cell" is an object comprising two pointers named the CAR and
the CDR.  Each of them can point to any Lisp object.

   A "list" is a series of cons cells, linked together so that the CDR
of each cons cell points either to another cons cell or to the empty
list.  *Note Lists::, for functions that work on lists.  Because most
cons cells are used as part of lists, the phrase "list structure" has
come to refer to any structure made out of cons cells.

   The names CAR and CDR have only historical meaning now.  The
original Lisp implementation ran on an IBM 704 computer which divided
words into two parts, called the "address" part and the "decrement";
CAR was an instruction to extract the contents of the address part of a
register, and CDR an instruction to extract the contents of the
decrement.  By contrast, "cons cells" are named for the function `cons'
that creates them, which in turn is named for its purpose, the
construction of cells.

   Because cons cells are so central to Lisp, we also have a word for
"an object which is not a cons cell".  These objects are called "atoms".

   The read syntax and printed representation for lists are identical,
and consist of a left parenthesis, an arbitrary number of elements, and
a right parenthesis.

   Upon reading, each object inside the parentheses becomes an element
of the list.  That is, a cons cell is made for each element.  The CAR
of the cons cell points to the element, and its CDR points to the next
cons cell of the list, which holds the next element in the list.  The
CDR of the last cons cell is set to point to `nil'.

   A list can be illustrated by a diagram in which the cons cells are
shown as pairs of boxes.  (The Lisp reader cannot read such an
illustration; unlike the textual notation, which can be understood by
both humans and computers, the box illustrations can be understood only
by humans.)  The following represents the three-element list `(rose
violet buttercup)':

         ___ ___      ___ ___      ___ ___
        |___|___|--> |___|___|--> |___|___|--> nil
          |            |            |
          |            |            |
           --> rose     --> violet   --> buttercup

   In this diagram, each box represents a slot that can refer to any
Lisp object.  Each pair of boxes represents a cons cell.  Each arrow is
a reference to a Lisp object, either an atom or another cons cell.

   In this example, the first box, the CAR of the first cons cell,
refers to or "contains" `rose' (a symbol).  The second box, the CDR of
the first cons cell, refers to the next pair of boxes, the second cons
cell.  The CAR of the second cons cell refers to `violet' and the CDR
refers to the third cons cell.  The CDR of the third (and last) cons
cell refers to `nil'.

   Here is another diagram of the same list, `(rose violet buttercup)',
sketched in a different manner:

     ---------------       ----------------       -------------------
     | car   | cdr   |     | car    | cdr   |     | car       | cdr   |
     | rose  |   o-------->| violet |   o-------->| buttercup |  nil  |
     |       |       |     |        |       |     |           |       |
      ---------------       ----------------       -------------------

   A list with no elements in it is the "empty list"; it is identical
to the symbol `nil'.  In other words, `nil' is both a symbol and a list.

   Here are examples of lists written in Lisp syntax:

     (A 2 "A")            ; A list of three elements.
     ()                   ; A list of no elements (the empty list).
     nil                  ; A list of no elements (the empty list).
     ("A ()")             ; A list of one element: the string `"A ()"'.
     (A ())               ; A list of two elements: `A' and the empty list.
     (A nil)              ; Equivalent to the previous.
     ((A B C))            ; A list of one element
                          ;   (which is a list of three elements).

   Here is the list `(A ())', or equivalently `(A nil)', depicted with
boxes and arrows:

         ___ ___      ___ ___
        |___|___|--> |___|___|--> nil
          |            |
          |            |
           --> A        --> nil

* Menu:

* Dotted Pair Notation::        An alternative syntax for lists.
* Association List Type::       A specially constructed list.


File: elisp,  Node: Dotted Pair Notation,  Next: Association List Type,  Up: Cons Cell Type

Dotted Pair Notation
....................

   "Dotted pair notation" is an alternative syntax for cons cells that
represents the CAR and CDR explicitly.  In this syntax, `(A . B)'
stands for a cons cell whose CAR is the object A, and whose CDR is the
object B.  Dotted pair notation is therefore more general than list
syntax.  In the dotted pair notation, the list `(1 2 3)' is written as
`(1 .  (2 . (3 . nil)))'.  For `nil'-terminated lists, the two
notations produce the same result, but list notation is usually clearer
and more convenient when it is applicable.  When printing a list, the
dotted pair notation is only used if the CDR of a cell is not a list.

   Here's how box notation can illustrate dotted pairs.  This example
shows the pair `(rose . violet)':

         ___ ___
        |___|___|--> violet
          |
          |
           --> rose

   Dotted pair notation can be combined with list notation to represent
a chain of cons cells with a non-`nil' final CDR.  For example, `(rose
violet . buttercup)' is equivalent to `(rose . (violet . buttercup))'.
The object looks like this:

         ___ ___      ___ ___
        |___|___|--> |___|___|--> buttercup
          |            |
          |            |
           --> rose     --> violet

   These diagrams make it evident why `(rose . violet . buttercup)' is
invalid syntax; it would require a cons cell that has three parts
rather than two.

   The list `(rose violet)' is equivalent to `(rose . (violet))' and
looks like this:

         ___ ___      ___ ___
        |___|___|--> |___|___|--> nil
          |            |
          |            |
           --> rose     --> violet

   Similarly, the three-element list `(rose violet buttercup)' is
equivalent to `(rose . (violet . (buttercup)))'.  It looks like this:

         ___ ___      ___ ___      ___ ___
        |___|___|--> |___|___|--> |___|___|--> nil
          |            |            |
          |            |            |
           --> rose     --> violet   --> buttercup


File: elisp,  Node: Association List Type,  Prev: Dotted Pair Notation,  Up: Cons Cell Type

Association List Type
.....................

   An "association list" or "alist" is a specially-constructed list
whose elements are cons cells.  In each element, the CAR is considered
a "key", and the CDR is considered an "associated value".  (In some
cases, the associated value is stored in the CAR of the CDR.)
Association lists are often used as stacks, since it is easy to add or
remove associations at the front of the list.

   For example,

     (setq alist-of-colors
           '((rose . red) (lily . white)  (buttercup . yellow)))

sets the variable `alist-of-colors' to an alist of three elements.  In
the first element, `rose' is the key and `red' is the value.

   *Note Association Lists::, for a further explanation of alists and
for functions that work on alists.


File: elisp,  Node: Array Type,  Next: String Type,  Prev: Cons Cell Type,  Up: Programming Types

Array Type
----------

   An "array" is composed of an arbitrary number of slots for referring
to other Lisp objects, arranged in a contiguous block of memory.
Accessing any element of an array takes the same amount of time.  In
contrast, accessing an element of a list requires time proportional to
the position of the element in the list.  (Elements at the end of a
list take longer to access than elements at the beginning of a list.)

   Emacs defines two types of array, strings and vectors.  A string is
an array of characters and a vector is an array of arbitrary objects.
Both are one-dimensional.  (Most other programming languages support
multidimensional arrays, but they are not essential; you can get the
same effect with an array of arrays.)  Each type of array has its own
read syntax; see *Note String Type::, and *Note Vector Type::.

   An array may have any length up to the largest integer; but once
created, it has a fixed size.  The first element of an array has index
zero, the second element has index 1, and so on.  This is called
"zero-origin" indexing.  For example, an array of four elements has
indices 0, 1, 2, and 3.

   The array type is contained in the sequence type and contains both
the string type and the vector type.


File: elisp,  Node: String Type,  Next: Vector Type,  Prev: Array Type,  Up: Programming Types

String Type
-----------

   A "string" is an array of characters.  Strings are used for many
purposes in Emacs, as can be expected in a text editor; for example, as
the names of Lisp symbols, as messages for the user, and to represent
text extracted from buffers.  Strings in Lisp are constants: evaluation
of a string returns the same string.

   The read syntax for strings is a double-quote, an arbitrary number of
characters, and another double-quote, `"like this"'.  The Lisp reader
accepts the same formats for reading the characters of a string as it
does for reading single characters (without the question mark that
begins a character literal).  You can enter a nonprinting character such
as tab, `C-a' or `M-C-A' using the convenient escape sequences, like
this: `"\t, \C-a, \M-\C-a"'.  You can include a double-quote in a
string by preceding it with a backslash; thus, `"\""' is a string
containing just a single double-quote character.  (*Note Character
Type::, for a description of the read syntax for characters.)

   If you use the `\M-' syntax to indicate a meta character in a string
constant, this sets the 2**7 bit of the character in the string.  This
is not the same representation that the meta modifier has in a
character on its own (not inside a string).  *Note Character Type::.

   Strings cannot hold characters that have the hyper, super, or alt
modifiers; they can hold ASCII control characters, but no others.  They
do not distinguish case in ASCII control characters.

   The printed representation of a string consists of a double-quote,
the characters it contains, and another double-quote.  However, you must
escape any backslash or double-quote characters in the string with a
backslash, like this: `"this \" is an embedded quote"'.

   The newline character is not special in the read syntax for strings;
if you write a new line between the double-quotes, it becomes a
character in the string.  But an escaped newline--one that is preceded
by `\'--does not become part of the string; i.e., the Lisp reader
ignores an escaped newline while reading a string.

     "It is useful to include newlines
     in documentation strings,
     but the newline is \
     ignored if escaped."
          => "It is useful to include newlines
     in documentation strings,
     but the newline is ignored if escaped."

   A string can hold properties of the text it contains, in addition to
the characters themselves.  This enables programs that copy text between
strings and buffers to preserve the properties with no special effort.
*Note Text Properties::.  Strings with text properties have a special
read and print syntax:

     #("CHARACTERS" PROPERTY-DATA...)

where PROPERTY-DATA consists of zero or more elements, in groups of
three as follows:

     BEG END PLIST

The elements BEG and END are integers, and together specify a range of
indices in the string; PLIST is the property list for that range.

   *Note Strings and Characters::, for functions that work on strings.


File: elisp,  Node: Vector Type,  Next: Function Type,  Prev: String Type,  Up: Programming Types

Vector Type
-----------

   A "vector" is a one-dimensional array of elements of any type.  It
takes a constant amount of time to access any element of a vector.  (In
a list, the access time of an element is proportional to the distance of
the element from the beginning of the list.)

   The printed representation of a vector consists of a left square
bracket, the elements, and a right square bracket.  This is also the
read syntax.  Like numbers and strings, vectors are considered constants
for evaluation.

     [1 "two" (three)]      ; A vector of three elements.
          => [1 "two" (three)]

   *Note Vectors::, for functions that work with vectors.


File: elisp,  Node: Function Type,  Next: Macro Type,  Prev: Vector Type,  Up: Programming Types

Function Type
-------------

   Just as functions in other programming languages are executable,
"Lisp function" objects are pieces of executable code.  However,
functions in Lisp are primarily Lisp objects, and only secondarily the
text which represents them.  These Lisp objects are lambda expressions:
lists whose first element is the symbol `lambda' (*note Lambda
Expressions::.).

   In most programming languages, it is impossible to have a function
without a name.  In Lisp, a function has no intrinsic name.  A lambda
expression is also called an "anonymous function" (*note Anonymous
Functions::.).  A named function in Lisp is actually a symbol with a
valid function in its function cell (*note Defining Functions::.).

   Most of the time, functions are called when their names are written
in Lisp expressions in Lisp programs.  However, you can construct or
obtain a function object at run time and then call it with the primitive
functions `funcall' and `apply'.  *Note Calling Functions::.


File: elisp,  Node: Macro Type,  Next: Primitive Function Type,  Prev: Function Type,  Up: Programming Types

Macro Type
----------

   A "Lisp macro" is a user-defined construct that extends the Lisp
language.  It is represented as an object much like a function, but with
different parameter-passing semantics.  A Lisp macro has the form of a
list whose first element is the symbol `macro' and whose CDR is a Lisp
function object, including the `lambda' symbol.

   Lisp macro objects are usually defined with the built-in `defmacro'
function, but any list that begins with `macro' is a macro as far as
Emacs is concerned.  *Note Macros::, for an explanation of how to write
a macro.


File: elisp,  Node: Primitive Function Type,  Next: Byte-Code Type,  Prev: Macro Type,  Up: Programming Types

Primitive Function Type
-----------------------

   A "primitive function" is a function callable from Lisp but written
in the C programming language.  Primitive functions are also called
"subrs" or "built-in functions".  (The word "subr" is derived from
"subroutine".)  Most primitive functions evaluate all their arguments
when they are called.  A primitive function that does not evaluate all
its arguments is called a "special form" (*note Special Forms::.).

   It does not matter to the caller of a function whether the function
is primitive.  However, this does matter if you try to substitute a
function written in Lisp for a primitive of the same name.  The reason
is that the primitive function may be called directly from C code.
Calls to the redefined function from Lisp will use the new definition,
but calls from C code may still use the built-in definition.

   The term "function" refers to all Emacs functions, whether written
in Lisp or C.  *Note Function Type::, for information about the
functions written in Lisp.

   Primitive functions have no read syntax and print in hash notation
with the name of the subroutine.

     (symbol-function 'car)          ; Access the function cell
                                     ;   of the symbol.
          => #<subr car>
     (subrp (symbol-function 'car))  ; Is this a primitive function?
          => t                       ; Yes.


File: elisp,  Node: Byte-Code Type,  Next: Autoload Type,  Prev: Primitive Function Type,  Up: Programming Types

Byte-Code Function Type
-----------------------

   The byte compiler produces "byte-code function objects".
Internally, a byte-code function object is much like a vector; however,
the evaluator handles this data type specially when it appears as a
function to be called.  *Note Byte Compilation::, for information about
the byte compiler.

   The printed representation for a byte-code function object is like
that for a vector, with an additional `#' before the opening `['.


File: elisp,  Node: Autoload Type,  Prev: Byte-Code Type,  Up: Programming Types

Autoload Type
-------------

   An "autoload object" is a list whose first element is the symbol
`autoload'.  It is stored as the function definition of a symbol as a
placeholder for the real definition; it says that the real definition
is found in a file of Lisp code that should be loaded when necessary.
The autoload object contains the name of the file, plus some other
information about the real definition.

   After the file has been loaded, the symbol should have a new function
definition that is not an autoload object.  The new definition is then
called as if it had been there to begin with.  From the user's point of
view, the function call works as expected, using the function definition
in the loaded file.

   An autoload object is usually created with the function `autoload',
which stores the object in the function cell of a symbol.  *Note
Autoload::, for more details.


File: elisp,  Node: Editing Types,  Next: Type Predicates,  Prev: Programming Types,  Up: Lisp Data Types

Editing Types
=============

   The types in the previous section are common to many Lisp dialects.
Emacs Lisp provides several additional data types for purposes connected
with editing.

* Menu:

* Buffer Type::         The basic object of editing.
* Marker Type::         A position in a buffer.
* Window Type::         Buffers are displayed in windows.
* Frame Type::		Windows subdivide frames.
* Window Configuration Type::   Recording the way a frame is subdivided.
* Process Type::        A process running on the underlying OS.
* Stream Type::         Receive or send characters.
* Keymap Type::         What function a keystroke invokes.
* Syntax Table Type::   What a character means.
* Display Table Type::  How display tables are represented.
* Overlay Type::        How an overlay is represented.


File: elisp,  Node: Buffer Type,  Next: Marker Type,  Up: Editing Types

Buffer Type
-----------

   A "buffer" is an object that holds text that can be edited (*note
Buffers::.).  Most buffers hold the contents of a disk file (*note
Files::.) so they can be edited, but some are used for other purposes.
Most buffers are also meant to be seen by the user, and therefore
displayed, at some time, in a window (*note Windows::.).  But a buffer
need not be displayed in any window.

   The contents of a buffer are much like a string, but buffers are not
used like strings in Emacs Lisp, and the available operations are
different.  For example, insertion of text into a buffer is very
efficient, whereas "inserting" text into a string requires
concatenating substrings, and the result is an entirely new string
object.

   Each buffer has a designated position called "point" (*note
Positions::.).  At any time, one buffer is the "current buffer".  Most
editing commands act on the contents of the current buffer in the
neighborhood of point.  Many of the standard Emacs functions manipulate
or test the characters in the current buffer; a whole chapter in this
manual is devoted to describing these functions (*note Text::.).

   Several other data structures are associated with each buffer:

   * a local syntax table (*note Syntax Tables::.);

   * a local keymap (*note Keymaps::.); and,

   * a local variable binding list (*note Buffer-Local Variables::.).

The local keymap and variable list contain entries that individually
override global bindings or values.  These are used to customize the
behavior of programs in different buffers, without actually changing the
programs.

   Buffers have no read syntax.  They print in hash notation with the
buffer name.

     (current-buffer)
          => #<buffer objects.texi>


File: elisp,  Node: Marker Type,  Next: Window Type,  Prev: Buffer Type,  Up: Editing Types

Marker Type
-----------

   A "marker" denotes a position in a specific buffer.  Markers
therefore have two components: one for the buffer, and one for the
position.  Changes in the buffer's text automatically relocate the
position value as necessary to ensure that the marker always points
between the same two characters in the buffer.

   Markers have no read syntax.  They print in hash notation, giving the
current character position and the name of the buffer.

     (point-marker)
          => #<marker at 10779 in objects.texi>

   *Note Markers::, for information on how to test, create, copy, and
move markers.


File: elisp,  Node: Window Type,  Next: Frame Type,  Prev: Marker Type,  Up: Editing Types

Window Type
-----------

   A "window" describes the portion of the terminal screen that Emacs
uses to display a buffer.  Every window has one associated buffer, whose
contents appear in the window.  By contrast, a given buffer may appear
in one window, no window, or several windows.

   Though many windows may exist simultaneously, at any time one window
is designated the "selected window".  This is the window where the
cursor is (usually) displayed when Emacs is ready for a command.  The
selected window usually displays the current buffer, but this is not
necessarily the case.

   Windows are grouped on the screen into frames; each window belongs to
one and only one frame.  *Note Frame Type::.

   Windows have no read syntax.  They print in hash notation, giving the
window number and the name of the buffer being displayed.  The window
numbers exist to identify windows uniquely, since the buffer displayed
in any given window can change frequently.

     (selected-window)
          => #<window 1 on objects.texi>

   *Note Windows::, for a description of the functions that work on
windows.


File: elisp,  Node: Frame Type,  Next: Window Configuration Type,  Prev: Window Type,  Up: Editing Types

Frame Type
----------

   A FRAME is a rectangle on the screen that contains one or more Emacs
windows.  A frame initially contains a single main window (plus perhaps
a minibuffer window) which you can subdivide vertically or horizontally
into smaller windows.

   Frames have no read syntax.  They print in hash notation, giving the
frame's title, plus its address in core (useful to identify the frame
uniquely).

     (selected-frame)
          => #<frame xemacs@mole.gnu.ai.mit.edu 0xdac80>

   *Note Frames::, for a description of the functions that work on
frames.


File: elisp,  Node: Window Configuration Type,  Next: Process Type,  Prev: Frame Type,  Up: Editing Types

Window Configuration Type
-------------------------

   A "window configuration" stores information about the positions,
sizes, and contents of the windows in a frame, so you can recreate the
same arrangement of windows later.

   Window configurations do not have a read syntax.  They print as
`#<window-configuration>'.  *Note Window Configurations::, for a
description of several functions related to window configurations.


File: elisp,  Node: Process Type,  Next: Stream Type,  Prev: Window Configuration Type,  Up: Editing Types

Process Type
------------

   The word "process" usually means a running program.  Emacs itself
runs in a process of this sort.  However, in Emacs Lisp, a process is a
Lisp object that designates a subprocess created by the Emacs process.
Programs such as shells, GDB, ftp, and compilers, running in
subprocesses of Emacs, extend the capabilities of Emacs.

   An Emacs subprocess takes textual input from Emacs and returns
textual output to Emacs for further manipulation.  Emacs can also send
signals to the subprocess.

   Process objects have no read syntax.  They print in hash notation,
giving the name of the process:

     (process-list)
          => (#<process shell>)

   *Note Processes::, for information about functions that create,
delete, return information about, send input or signals to, and receive
output from processes.


File: elisp,  Node: Stream Type,  Next: Keymap Type,  Prev: Process Type,  Up: Editing Types

Stream Type
-----------

   A "stream" is an object that can be used as a source or sink for
characters--either to supply characters for input or to accept them as
output.  Many different types can be used this way: markers, buffers,
strings, and functions.  Most often, input streams (character sources)
obtain characters from the keyboard, a buffer, or a file, and output
streams (character sinks) send characters to a buffer, such as a
`*Help*' buffer, or to the echo area.

   The object `nil', in addition to its other meanings, may be used as
a stream.  It stands for the value of the variable `standard-input' or
`standard-output'.  Also, the object `t' as a stream specifies input
using the minibuffer (*note Minibuffers::.) or output in the echo area
(*note The Echo Area::.).

   Streams have no special printed representation or read syntax, and
print as whatever primitive type they are.

   *Note Read and Print::, for a description of functions related to
streams, including parsing and printing functions.


File: elisp,  Node: Keymap Type,  Next: Syntax Table Type,  Prev: Stream Type,  Up: Editing Types

Keymap Type
-----------

   A "keymap" maps keys typed by the user to commands.  This mapping
controls how the user's command input is executed.  A keymap is actually
a list whose CAR is the symbol `keymap'.

   *Note Keymaps::, for information about creating keymaps, handling
prefix keys, local as well as global keymaps, and changing key bindings.


File: elisp,  Node: Syntax Table Type,  Next: Display Table Type,  Prev: Keymap Type,  Up: Editing Types

Syntax Table Type
-----------------

   A "syntax table" is a vector of 256 integers.  Each element of the
vector defines how one character is interpreted when it appears in a
buffer.  For example, in C mode (*note Major Modes::.), the `+'
character is punctuation, but in Lisp mode it is a valid character in a
symbol.  These modes specify different interpretations by changing the
syntax table entry for `+', at index 43 in the syntax table.

   Syntax tables are used only for scanning text in buffers, not for
reading Lisp expressions.  The table the Lisp interpreter uses to read
expressions is built into the Emacs source code and cannot be changed;
thus, to change the list delimiters to be `{' and `}' instead of `('
and `)' would be impossible.

   *Note Syntax Tables::, for details about syntax classes and how to
make and modify syntax tables.


File: elisp,  Node: Display Table Type,  Next: Overlay Type,  Prev: Syntax Table Type,  Up: Editing Types

Display Table Type
------------------

   A "display table" specifies how to display each character code.
Each buffer and each window can have its own display table.  A display
table is actually a vector of length 261.  *Note Display Tables::.


File: elisp,  Node: Overlay Type,  Prev: Display Table Type,  Up: Editing Types

Overlay Type
------------

   An "overlay" specifies temporary alteration of the display
appearance of a part of a buffer.  It contains markers delimiting a
range of the buffer, plus a property list (a list whose elements are
alternating property names and values).  Overlays are used to present
parts of the buffer temporarily in a different display style.

   *Note Overlays::, for how to create and use overlays.  They have no
read syntax, and print in hash notation, giving the buffer name and
range of positions.


File: elisp,  Node: Type Predicates,  Next: Equality Predicates,  Prev: Editing Types,  Up: Lisp Data Types

Type Predicates
===============

   The Emacs Lisp interpreter itself does not perform type checking on
the actual arguments passed to functions when they are called.  It could
not do so, since function arguments in Lisp do not have declared data
types, as they do in other programming languages.  It is therefore up to
the individual function to test whether each actual argument belongs to
a type that the function can use.

   All built-in functions do check the types of their actual arguments
when appropriate, and signal a `wrong-type-argument' error if an
argument is of the wrong type.  For example, here is what happens if you
pass an argument to `+' that it cannot handle:

     (+ 2 'a)
          error--> Wrong type argument: integer-or-marker-p, a

   Lisp provides functions, called "type predicates", to test whether
an object is a member of a given type.  (Following a convention of long
standing, the names of most Emacs Lisp predicates end in `p'.)

   Here is a table of predefined type predicates, in alphabetical order,
with references to further information.

`atom'
     *Note atom: List-related Predicates.

`arrayp'
     *Note arrayp: Array Functions.

`bufferp'
     *Note bufferp: Buffer Basics.

`byte-code-function-p'
     *Note byte-code-function-p: Byte-Code Type.

`case-table-p'
     *Note case-table-p: Case Table.

`char-or-string-p'
     *Note char-or-string-p: Predicates for Strings.

`commandp'
     *Note commandp: Interactive Call.

`consp'
     *Note consp: List-related Predicates.

`floatp'
     *Note floatp: Predicates on Numbers.

`frame-live-p'
     *Note frame-live-p: Deleting Frames.

`framep'
     *Note framep: Frames.

`integer-or-marker-p'
     *Note integer-or-marker-p: Predicates on Markers.

`integerp'
     *Note integerp: Predicates on Numbers.

`keymapp'
     *Note keymapp: Creating Keymaps.

`listp'
     *Note listp: List-related Predicates.

`markerp'
     *Note markerp: Predicates on Markers.

`wholenump'
     *Note wholenump: Predicates on Numbers.

`nlistp'
     *Note nlistp: List-related Predicates.

`numberp'
     *Note numberp: Predicates on Numbers.

`number-or-marker-p'
     *Note number-or-marker-p: Predicates on Markers.

`overlayp'
     *Note overlayp: Overlays.

`processp'
     *Note processp: Processes.

`sequencep'
     *Note sequencep: Sequence Functions.

`stringp'
     *Note stringp: Predicates for Strings.

`subrp'
     *Note subrp: Function Cells.

`symbolp'
     *Note symbolp: Symbols.

`syntax-table-p'
     *Note syntax-table-p: Syntax Tables.

`user-variable-p'
     *Note user-variable-p: Defining Variables.

`vectorp'
     *Note vectorp: Vectors.

`window-configuration-p'
     *Note window-configuration-p: Window Configurations.

`window-live-p'
     *Note window-live-p: Deleting Windows.

`windowp'
     *Note windowp: Basic Windows.


File: elisp,  Node: Equality Predicates,  Prev: Type Predicates,  Up: Lisp Data Types

Equality Predicates
===================

   Here we describe two functions that test for equality between any two
objects.  Other functions test equality between objects of specific
types, e.g., strings.  For these predicates, see the appropriate chapter
describing the data type.

 - Function: eq OBJECT1 OBJECT2
     This function returns `t' if OBJECT1 and OBJECT2 are the same
     object, `nil' otherwise.  The "same object" means that a change in
     one will be reflected by the same change in the other.

     `eq' returns `t' if OBJECT1 and OBJECT2 are integers with the same
     value.  Also, since symbol names are normally unique, if the
     arguments are symbols with the same name, they are `eq'.  For
     other types (e.g., lists, vectors, strings), two arguments with
     the same contents or elements are not necessarily `eq' to each
     other: they are `eq' only if they are the same object.

     (The `make-symbol' function returns an uninterned symbol that is
     not interned in the standard `obarray'.  When uninterned symbols
     are in use, symbol names are no longer unique.  Distinct symbols
     with the same name are not `eq'.  *Note Creating Symbols::.)

          (eq 'foo 'foo)
               => t
          
          (eq 456 456)
               => t
          
          (eq "asdf" "asdf")
               => nil
          
          (eq '(1 (2 (3))) '(1 (2 (3))))
               => nil
          
          (setq foo '(1 (2 (3))))
               => (1 (2 (3)))
          (eq foo foo)
               => t
          (eq foo '(1 (2 (3))))
               => nil
          
          (eq [(1 2) 3] [(1 2) 3])
               => nil
          
          (eq (point-marker) (point-marker))
               => nil


 - Function: equal OBJECT1 OBJECT2
     This function returns `t' if OBJECT1 and OBJECT2 have equal
     components, `nil' otherwise.  Whereas `eq' tests if its arguments
     are the same object, `equal' looks inside nonidentical arguments
     to see if their elements are the same.  So, if two objects are
     `eq', they are `equal', but the converse is not always true.

          (equal 'foo 'foo)
               => t
          
          (equal 456 456)
               => t
          
          (equal "asdf" "asdf")
               => t
          (eq "asdf" "asdf")
               => nil
          
          (equal '(1 (2 (3))) '(1 (2 (3))))
               => t
          (eq '(1 (2 (3))) '(1 (2 (3))))
               => nil
          
          (equal [(1 2) 3] [(1 2) 3])
               => t
          (eq [(1 2) 3] [(1 2) 3])
               => nil
          
          (equal (point-marker) (point-marker))
               => t
          
          (eq (point-marker) (point-marker))
               => nil

     Comparison of strings uses `string=', and is case-sensitive.

          (equal "asdf" "ASDF")
               => nil

   The test for equality is implemented recursively, and circular lists
may therefore cause infinite recursion (leading to an error).


File: elisp,  Node: Numbers,  Next: Strings and Characters,  Prev: Lisp Data Types,  Up: Top

Numbers
*******

   GNU Emacs supports two numeric data types: "integers" and "floating
point numbers".  Integers are whole numbers such as -3, 0, 7, 13, and
511.  Their values are exact.  Floating point numbers are numbers with
fractional parts, such as -4.5, 0.0, or 2.71828.  They can also be
expressed in exponential notation: 1.5e2 equals 150; in this example,
`e2' stands for ten to the second power, and is multiplied by 1.5.
Floating point values are not exact; they have a fixed, limited amount
of precision.

   Support for floating point numbers is a new feature in Emacs 19, and
it is controlled by a separate compilation option, so you may encounter
a site where Emacs does not support them.

* Menu:

* Integer Basics::            Representation and range of integers.
* Float Basics::	      Representation and range of floating point.
* Predicates on Numbers::     Testing for numbers.
* Comparison of Numbers::     Equality and inequality predicates.
* Numeric Conversions::	      Converting float to integer and vice versa.
* Arithmetic Operations::     How to add, subtract, multiply and divide.
* Rounding Operations::       Explicitly rounding floating point numbers.
* Bitwise Operations::        Logical and, or, not, shifting.
* Transcendental Functions::  Trig, exponential and logarithmic functions.
* Random Numbers::            Obtaining random integers, predictable or not.


File: elisp,  Node: Integer Basics,  Next: Float Basics,  Up: Numbers

Integer Basics
==============

   The range of values for an integer depends on the machine.  The
range is -8388608 to 8388607 (24 bits; i.e., -2**23 to 2**23 - 1) on
most machines, but on others it is -16777216 to 16777215 (25 bits), or
-33554432 to 33554431 (26 bits).  Many examples in this chapter assume
an integer has 24 bits.

   The Lisp reader reads an integer as a sequence of digits with
optional initial sign and optional final period.

      1               ; The integer 1.
      1.              ; The integer 1.
     +1               ; Also the integer 1.
     -1               ; The integer -1.
      16777217        ; Also the integer 1, due to overflow.
      0               ; The integer 0.
     -0               ; The integer 0.

   To understand how various functions work on integers, especially the
bitwise operators (*note Bitwise Operations::.), it is often helpful to
view the numbers in their binary form.

   In 24-bit binary, the decimal integer 5 looks like this:

     0000 0000  0000 0000  0000 0101

(We have inserted spaces between groups of 4 bits, and two spaces
between groups of 8 bits, to make the binary integer easier to read.)

   The integer -1 looks like this:

     1111 1111  1111 1111  1111 1111

-1 is represented as 24 ones.  (This is called "two's complement"
notation.)

   The negative integer, -5, is creating by subtracting 4 from -1.  In
binary, the decimal integer 4 is 100.  Consequently, -5 looks like this:

     1111 1111  1111 1111  1111 1011

   In this implementation, the largest 24-bit binary integer is the
decimal integer 8,388,607.  In binary, it looks like this:

     0111 1111  1111 1111  1111 1111

   Since the arithmetic functions do not check whether integers go
outside their range, when you add 1 to 8,388,607, the value is the
negative integer -8,388,608:

     (+ 1 8388607)
          => -8388608
          => 1000 0000  0000 0000  0000 0000

   Many of the following functions accept markers for arguments as well
as integers.  (*Note Markers::.)  More precisely, the actual arguments
to such functions may be either integers or markers, which is why we
often give these arguments the name INT-OR-MARKER.  When the argument
value is a marker, its position value is used and its buffer is ignored.

