Thu May 11 17:24:58 CEST 2006
---001--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(BrianGlendenning)
p.x I don't think the operations requirements are accounted for in here?

REPLY
May be I do not understand your remark.
Operations requirements are tracked trough the table in the ACS SW
Development Plan, where you find the reference to the corresponding 
sections in the Architecture.
What is missing?

---002--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(JoeSchwarz)
p. 11, RD39: Reference should be to www.openarchitectureware.org

REPLY
OK. I will change this

---003--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(JoeSchwarz)
p. 27, 3.4.10.2.2, complex, scalarTypeSeq and structures are listed as "Not 
implemented yet." At this late stage in ACS development, is it realistic to
believe that they ever will be? If they were needed, presumably developers
have found some workaround; if they're not, why should they ever be 
implemented at all?

REPLY
This comment triggers a wider discussion.

The features mentioned (and other in following sections) where discussed 
when designing the ACS architecture and agreed as extensions or things to be
implemented in the future.

I agree with you that probably by now many would not be used in ALMA, 
for the reasons you mention.

A part from the specific cases, I think we should discuss what should be
the general policy for ACS and the ACS Architecture document with respect 
to features that have been discussed, agreed as potentially important
but not (yet) implemented.

I think it would be in general not advisable to completely remove these 
features from the document. This because they contribute to give a global 
and coherent picture of what ACS would be if we would implement all 
features we have discussed and filled in all "holes".

Most of the "holes" we have are not relevant for the implementation of ALMA
or we can live with them, balancing cost and benefits.

But if somebody will ask about these issues later on, we should be able to see
"we have thought about that, they fit here, we did not need them in practice
in our project, we can implement them if needed".

At CDR-3 I added a generic "not implemented yet" remark to allow quickly 
identifying what parts of the architecture were not implemented, without
distinguishing between the possible reasons. I find this useful, 
keeping it low profile and low detail so that we do not have high costs,
for example, in keeping the document aligned with the traceability matrix

Maybe it would be better to replace such remarks with finer details.
I would suggest for example:
- not/partially implemented: potential extension
- not/partially implemented: development foreseen for release X.Y

The specific point mentiond here would fit in the "potential extension"
cathegory.

I would like to get your opinions and discuss this issue at the 
review phone meeting.

---004--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(JoeSchwarz)
p. 39, 3.5.11, the "Visual Configuration Tool (CT)" was to be "rediscussed
after R3" -- is this being folded into the CDB redesign and/or the
configuration work to be done with HLA? Comment should be updated, at any
rate. It's too bad that we don't have this tool now.

REPLY
I agree it is bad not to have the tool available.

As you say, the idea is that the outcome of the CDB redesign and HLA 
configuration work will effectively replace the tool.

My plan was to re-write this section once we will be more advanced
with the work of CDB and configuration redesign. I have in mind
what described here and I always bring these ideas as a contribution
to the corresponding discussions.

On the other hand, as ACS team I never managed to get resources to work on the
configuration tool (remember that the plan of ACS is discussed at the release 
planning meeting, the tool was put in the list of possibilities more than once,
but the priority always ended up below the threshold of affordability).

---005--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(JoeSchwarz)
p. 52, 3.9.4, Shouldn't there be a discussion of the change to 1 nsec units
that (I thought) was planned for ACS?

REPLY:
You are right.
This slipped through.
I will update this section for the release after the review meeting.


---006--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(BrianGlendenning)
p.54 3.10.5.x: I hear some discussion about dynamic components (and their relation to 
the CDB). Is there remaining design work to be described somewhere?

REPLY
There are two issues that did not make it into this version of the document;
- Colocated components.
  This is discussed in:
      http://almasw.hq.eso.org/almasw/bin/view/ACS/DeploymentOfComponentsOnNodesAndStartupOfContainers
  I thought I had put it in the architecture together with the Container
  startup from the same page, but I must have forgot.
- Component CDB retrieved by type and not by instance
  Also Joe mentioned these issue commenting on the Pipeline documents.
  This was discussed in Socorro during my mission in February but I
  frogot about it.
  I have now created a wiki page:

     http://almasw.hq.eso.org/almasw/bin/view/ACS/CdbAccessWithSchemaSpecification

  and I hope to get soon comments and straight the design.

In both cases I will add a proper description, based on what you can read
in the twiki, for the official release of the document.

Thanks for noticing :-)

---007--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(BrianGlendenning)
p.70 3.14 Archiving: Presumably it should be noted that this is all subject to revision? Or 
is this part unchanged, and it's only the clients that have to change?

REPLY
This part is not affected by the discussions.
Only control and archive are affected.

---008--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(BrianGlendenning)
p.75 3.14.11 I don't think this exact synchronization is actually intended any more?

REPLY
Well, this synchronization is not used/needed any more, as far as I know.
But it is implemented and whenever you specify these time periods it is used.

Should I submit and SPR and ask it to be removed?
This would bring a marginal semplification in the code and remove these very
special cases.

To be discussed at the meeting.

---009--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(BrianGlendenning)
p.83 3.18.2 It seems like this statement could be made more definite now (i.e., are we 
using IIOP or not?). (In fact, it seems like the whole bulk data section could be rewritten 
since we have a more definite implementation now).

This section is ment just as a short introduction to the issues discussed below.
We are using the CORBA AV streaming service and we are indeed NOT using IIOP.
This is clarified in the architecture and design section 3.18.3.

The AV sections were written earlier in the implementation and therefore
leave more options open. Although all what is written there is still valid
I would agree with you that it would be better to re-write the section
with more firm statemements and more details for the actual 
design and implementation.

Notice that there are issues about the usage of the distributor that we are
now analyzing and that we will want to discuss in the short term with the
users (i.e. Archive and Correlator). We plan to have the AOT people
in Garching in parallel to the leads-meeting in June to finalyse
these discussions.

---010--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(JoeSchwarz)
p. 85, 3.18.3.3, the discussion about porting A/V to Java & Python seems out
of date.

REPLY
Yes and no.
The way the text is written might be updated to better reflect the 
current status of the CPP implementation.
But the issues are still there and nothing has been really done to allow us 
to take a final decision.
Will we need Python and Java implementation? I do not know.
If we will, the section describes how we can get to it and what 
are the potential pitfalls.

I would leave the section here and eventually partially re-write it, but nothing
would change in the substance of what is beeing said.

---011--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(BrianGlendenning)
p.86 3.19.2.2 It seems to me that we currently have no firm plan for engineering GUIs, 
e.g. people seem to be using JFreechart rather than Abeans, role of LabView, etc. I think 
we need to rethink our strategy here (should perhaps get some R4 time to plan a strategy).

REPLY
I think this is an important issue to be discussed at the leads meeting 
and therefore it did not made much sense to drastically edit the section before 
that discussion.
What is written in the section is up to date and correctly describes the current
status, but the discussions at the leads meeting might change the picture. 
For this revision I had just added a paragraph about LabView (and about help) 
but not much more.

Notice that JFreechart and Abeans are not mutually exclusive.
JFreechart is a plotting library and doe snot provide other GUI wirdgets.
The plotting widgets in ABeans (that you can see in the object 
explorer and mount gui) are actually using JFreeChart.

LabView instead could have a real alternative role, to be discussed.

---012--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(BrianGlendenning)
p.86 3.19.6 online help: Even if we use Java help, I imagine there need to be some 
conventions about directory structure, how to link to external documents, etc. Who is 
responsible for defining this?

REPLY
ACS in the flesh and soul of Marcus.
We will allocate time for this and based on the OT experience he will define
the standard setup and provide guidelines.
Discussions with SE and I&T will be probably necessary, in particular when
we go to installing things on web servers and so on.


---013--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(JoeSchwarz)
p. 89, 3.22, It's awfully late for a new "application framework," at least as
far as ALMA is concerned. Do you really plan to do this?

REPLY
I guess you are talking of section 3.20 and not 3.22.
Actually parts of the framework are already there, like the master component.
Soon we will also distribute with ACS the code generator developed by HPT.
This will be another important step, although I would have preferred a UML based
generator.

Unfortunately other important parts are not there, like a complete 
state machine generator.

But these thing fall in the cathegories of comment 003 above.
I will re-write the section making clear what is available and is not.

---014--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(BrianGlendenning)
p.92 3.25/3.26
I think we need to be more proactive in finding which third party libraries are used by the subsyste
ms and ensuring that we have only one copy in the system. Perhaps ACS should do a survey in the R4 c
ycle?

REPLY
The subsystems should look into what is available in ACS and ask to integrate
into ACS adidtional libraries that are not available and that have 
no equivalent.

Many do it, some do not do it.

I think it is not practical for ACS to go into the application code and look
for libraries that have been introduced without following the procedures.

May be this could be a task for SE.


---015--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(JoeSchwarz)
p. 94, 4.4, Performance: the web page referred to here seems pretty dated.
It talks about ACS 4, and there is a long list of proposals/requests that
may or may not be planned for implementation. I'd like to see something in
this document that's more recent than a reference to the Kitt Peak test. We
have learned quite a bit about logging, bulk data, threading and how they
affect performance, and this would be a good place (and time) to summarize
them.

REPLY
Yes, I agree and you have a good point.
I have since long in the back of my mind to restructure the information that we have
collected about performance and this has been often an item in the ACS 
planning discussions.
But we always had to sacrify it for other things that got higher priority.
I will try to work on that later this year.

                              _____oOo_____
